What's up guys, Zach Yada-Gara here, co-founder and CEO of Cal AI.
You're going to hear about me more later in the distribution section especially
, but
I'm just going to jump in here and talk about some primary and secondary design
principles
for you to keep in mind.
I'm going to be picking off after Blake's.
So he put together this whole testosterone max app design and he showed you
guys how
to wire frame it.
He also showed you how to hire a designer to take these designs and make them
into something
beautiful.
We have not had a designer redesign it yet.
However, so I'm just going to jump in assume like by this point you should have
more beautiful
designs on well, I guess it doesn't actually you should honestly have this
stuff done in
your wire frame the stuff I'm about to go over to be honest and then you should
probably
send it to a designer.
So he showed the wire frame so you open the app and then it's going to tell you
complete
your first analysis.
You hit start.
This is a primary action the start.
You are doing your first analysis.
There are other buttons on the screen.
This is some kind of calendar you click and see past days.
It depends if you want to add that functionality to see past days, but then
maybe at the bottom
you'll have an app bar where you have multiple different tabs that they could
go to like
a home tab of a things little cut off.
My my full screen is actually not being shown.
Let me let me address this.
Okay, should be better now, but okay.
I don't know how much was cut off.
I'm just going to keep going.
So the primary action is the start because this is what you want your users to
do.
You basically want to spoon feed them the buttons to click.
You want to make sure that they clearly understand where to go in the flow of
the app.
And that's kind of what makes an intuitive design and intuitive design is when
you have
one clear action per screen.
So on this screen, the clear action is to start your analysis.
That's the big button.
And then you might have some secondary ones at the bottom where it's like, okay
, home,
settings.
There's not much content without having your first analysis you want to show.
Maybe you'll have like something like recommendations unavailable.
Something like this, the designer would make this look good.
And the reason they're unavailable, it's just to show the user, yeah, there is
more content.
But until you start your analysis, you're going to do that.
Maybe like recommendations, you could even put some recommendations here, but
then kind
of blur them out.
And that could actually be a cool thing.
It's like you put something over, make it kind of light, but add a blur effect
to it.
Layer blur.
I don't know if layer blur is the right, is what I'm looking for.
I think layer blur on this actually.
So recommendations needs to be separate.
Okay.
Look.
Get rid of this.
Take this stuff, get out of here.
Okay.
So I'm going to add a layer blur to.
I'm going to make two separate text elements.
Lucky, this is all part of the wireframe.
So I'm just like going off here, but I just think it's a cool idea to add a
layer blur.
It'd be like very blurry, and then you would put a button or it's like scan to
get recommendations.
Just to show them, honestly, this might not look good after having a designer
go over it.
Like a lot of the time you just want to put things out there.
And by the way, this is too long of a text for a call to action.
You always want it to be shorter.
But sometimes you'll want to just put stuff out there and just have designers
work on
it and then see what you like and what you don't like.
Don't be afraid to try things and then cut them if they are not good.
But this isn't, this isn't the worst of the world.
So something like this.
And then you click this basically just like the start button, but just more
content on
the page.
This is technically a secondary action, but it takes you to the same flow as
the primary.
So primary actions are everything that's, you only have typically one primary
action per
page and then everything else is secondary.
I mean, you could have like secondary tertiary and just keep going down the
list, but where
all that really matters, you don't need to over-complicate this.
So you want one clear button on every page.
Here is the start button.
Once you click this, then we're going to want to take them to a page where it
shows, where
it shows maybe a camera, for example, or not a camera, because what does he,
the input
is a selfie.
Okay, so camera.
So you want like a camera, a take picture button and the take picture.
Now is the primary action.
Take picture.
Obviously you don't want to have like a text label like this.
You'll actually want a real camera button, but again, this is the Zolt wire
frame.
I have not had a designer go over it.
So take picture.
You'll also want a back button.
Boom.
And this will, this is a camera.
So you'll see your face.
Great.
Big smile.
And so on this page, the primary action is taking a picture.
The secondary action is hitting the back arrow.
That's a good thing about this.
Once you take a picture, get the scan, you're going to enter your info, blah,
blah, you
have like, ideally a good thing to do.
You don't always have to do this by putting one input field per page makes it
very simple.
Like onboarding flows, for example, it's one question per page generally.
Sometimes they put multiple.
Like if things fit together, sometimes age, sorry.
So sometimes weight and height is put together because that, that is, that
flows and is typically
seen as something together.
It's also proportional effect each other.
But then if, if you're going to ask unrelated questions in a row, it's always
smoother to
just separate the screens to keep one primary action per screen.
So once you take the picture, go through all the questions that you'll design,
the homepage
will look something like this.
Five actions left for the day, you'll have all your actions.
And then you'll probably want something at the bottom where it's like new scan
or like,
I honestly would put like a picture frame here.
This is a picture of you when you scanned, you're like last scan, nine dash 21,
like some
date.
And then I'm honestly modeling this kind of after Kelly.
I right now can be anything.
But last scan, overall score, 99 out of 100.
And then maybe then like a view more button or like open.
Looky, this is pretty shitty.
But maybe you want all your scans and then like I honestly, so I would think
you don't
like scans section here.
So you have your recommendations section, you have your scan section and you'll
want a
new scan button.
Honestly, how this is all laid out may not be optimal.
You might want the new scan above your previous scan.
You might want to list it like all of your past scans.
That's a little bit more unclear.
You might want the scans above the actions that honestly could work too.
I can see how that could look good.
But you want a new scan button.
So on this page, the primary actions, although there's not necessarily one
clear button, the
primary action is to clear these actions.
Maybe it's like maybe these are check boxes and you're just ticking them off.
I don't like the auto layout stuff that Blake did.
I'm not good at this stuff.
That's what you should learn it though.
It's a good thing if you do something that I'm bad at.
So it's not drawing.
But whatever, you have like check boxes.
You could check off the actions as you complete them.
And technically, if you want to really break down the hierarchy of things, the
top action,
this would be the primary action.
This would be the secondary action tertiary blah, blah, blah.
And then new scan is like whatever the next after all of those.
See the user comes on and they do that.
Let's look at more examples of when you design how to think about the primary
and secondary
actions.
So let's open up actually Cal AI and the design here.
So in Cal AI, this is the main homepage and the primary action, can you guess
what it
is?
Primary action is clicking the plus.
And it's a little bit less clear here that this is the primary action because
there's
so much going on on the screen.
You see your calories left, you see a calendar at the top, you see a bar at the
bottom with
different pages.
You see a recently uploaded section.
The way you know it's the primary action and the way we show users that it is
to make
it easier is that we say you haven't uploaded any food and we have an arrow
pointing to
this big black button in the corner with a plus.
This entire section is just dedicated to someone clicking on the black button.
So that's how we kind of solve for so much going on on the screen.
Then they hit the plus.
Once they do it once they'll learn that that is it's all of this design really
is most
important for when a user first uses your app because you want it to be so easy
.
They don't need a manual.
They don't need a God to use it.
Video games, the first video game is ever invented.
You actually need it to read an entire manual in order to play them which
sucked obviously
that was way too much friction for most consumers to actually care enough to
want to learn
and play the game.
For apps we want to make sure you do not need any instructions.
You don't need any manual.
It should be so easy, so intuitive, so simple that they just jump in and know
exactly where
to go.
So you hit the plus.
That's the primary action.
There are a ton of other secondary actions like the pages clicking into this
clicking past
days in the calendar.
And how I would think about designing your app is the primary action by far is
what matters
especially for launch.
When we launched Cal AI, actually let me try to see if I can find this picture.
But when we launched Cal AI, it had one feature on it.
Trying to find it right now.
Actually here it is.
Sick.
Okay.
So Blake made this tweet.
This was Cal AI version 0.0.
This is what we launched with.
We literally launched with just the primary action.
Take a picture of your meal.
You hit the plus, it will take you to a camera.
You snap the picture.
Takes you back to the home screen.
We'll load and show you the calories.
That was it.
There are no secondary actions here.
The only other action there even is is clicking the calendar to go back to
yesterday.
That was the only other action even possible.
And this worked for us.
This was with this design.
We did $30,000 that month.
And so in the second month, we did $150,000.
And I think we were actually still in this design.
Maybe a little bit more built out.
But it was still very poor.
So that should show you that you don't need to overthink things.
You don't need to have too many features.
The primary action is truly all that really matters right away.
But you do want secondary actions to really build out the content of the app.
This is kind of where more of retention comes in.
Like obviously if they're downloading your app, they're doing it because of
your primary
action.
And that's what all your marketing's around.
The secondary actions should kind of help the primary action.
So for example, Kali Eye.
We're not just going to put random secondary actions.
Like it would be if the primary action was track your calories, track your food
, and
then the secondary action was create a workout plan.
That's somewhat related.
It's not close enough where it's not close enough where it's intuitive.
Instead, what we have is when you hit the plus, you're prompted with a few
things.
So you could scan food, log food from the database, log food from your saved
foods.
And you also can log in exercise.
All of this is related to calories.
Basically, you could say the core action is log either calories eaten or
calories burned.
Because that's all this is.
You're just logging calories.
You're either logging the food you ate or you're logging calories you burned.
We didn't have log exercise early on in Kali Eye.
We just had log food and logging exercise that is a secondary action that
benefits the user
and helps because it helps them track their calories more accurately.
That's how really I would look at secondary actions is that they are just
supporting to
the primary action.
They support a supporting role.
Make sure that you don't put too much into your designs and screens.
That was a big innovation we made going from Kali Eye to my fitness pal was
just simplifying
the entire app.
I'm actually going to find something right now that I have basically Kali Eye.
One of the best things about us that most people don't talk about is just how
we made
ourselves so easy to use.
Look at this.
So it's pretty blurry.
I just pulled this from Forbes article about us.
So it'll flex right there.
You have Kali Eye.
It's actually crazy.
You can build an app.
An app idea can just come out of your mind and then boom, you're in Forbes a
few months
later.
This could be you next.
So Kali Eye you can see on the left and you can see all the other ones even
though they're
super blurry next to it.
So my fitness pal, look at everything going on.
This is Kali Eye.
You can see everything fits in one page.
My fitness pal, it's already cut off.
You have to scroll and there's so much more content.
There are four different tabs here.
There are these things underneath for steps and exercises.
You have your weight graphs.
You have just so much shoved into one page.
The core action is searching food, but then they put so many secondary actions
that the
app is so hard to understand.
It's unintuitive.
You need a manual.
You need someone helping you legitimately.
When you download my fitness pal, you need a friend telling you how to really
onboard to
it.
There's a lot of friction.
There are some other apps here and I don't really know their names for all of
them, but
you can see they all also have a ton going on.
So much.
It's confusing.
When you look at a screen, you should instantly know what is the button I click
to perform
the desired action.
With my fitness pal, to be honest, it's very confusing to just know how to
track your
calories properly and all of these other apps as well.
Kalea, you can see way easier and obviously I'm biased, but you could see this
with your
own eyes.
It's fucking clear.
So primary action right here clearly, you could see it is hitting the plus.
With my fitness pal, it's a little bit less clear, but you can see it's
searching for
food.
The reason this is not great is because primary actions, a search bar is
usually not a primary
action.
That's a little bit unintuitive.
People are used to hitting a button, not hitting a search bar, but it's a
search for food after.
It's easy enough where you look at it the first time and then you're like, "
Okay, that's
how I do it."
But then with everything else going on, it's just so much.
It takes the user a while to even see the search bar there.
It's confusing.
A jumble of mess.
Here, this is honestly a lot less clear.
There's an orange plus at the bottom.
It's very small, but, and so much going on here, you can see it take the quiz
button.
If I'm looking at this, I think that the take the quiz might even be the call
to action.
That might be the primary action because it's the biggest button on the screen
and it's
bright orange.
To me, that's calling out to me, which obviously it's wrong.
Taking a quiz shouldn't be the core action.
It's logging your food.
This app, a little bit better because the button is bigger at the bottom.
I think it's the biggest bright green button in the app.
It's more clear, but still a ton going on.
It's not super obvious.
Life sum.
It does better, for sure.
It's a lot more simple.
They are much more intuitive and easy to understand.
However, they too are a little bit convoluted.
You could see you have to scroll down to see all of the content on the page.
I see four plus buttons on this app.
I'm confused.
I'm supposed to click the green one at the bottom or am I supposed to click the
one on
the side here.
Overall, they're probably better than the other ones besides Calli-i.
Calli-i is the best.
Going back and talking about your design, I would think about orienting
everything around
the primary action, making it very clear on every single page.
Not just the homepage, but every single page with the main button is.
Then you could have secondary buttons, but they should always be de-emphasized.
If you're going to have two buttons, for example, a take picture button, or if
you want the option
that less people do, but you want to offer it, be upload a picture, then what
you do is
you put the button somewhere, but you make it less big, less flashy, put it
underneath.
If I'm looking at this, it's clear the core action is take a picture, secondary
actions
upload.
Both are an option, but more people will gravitate towards take a picture.
If alternatively you want people to take more and upload less, then you just
flip them,
you put one upload, and then take at the bottom.
Consumer psychology will tell you that this will just cause more people to
click the bigger,
the bigger, more flashy button, nine times out of time.
Sick.
Not much more for me to say on this.
I think I really exhausted the terms, primary and secondary actions.
Something I do want to say though, for your design, just keep in mind that all
of this
can be iterated on it.
All of this can be changed.
Don't be a perfectionist.
Just launch.
Going back to the version of Kali I we initially launched with, it was fucking
embarrassing.
If you're not embarrassed with what you're launching with, then you launch too
late.
That's a quote.
It's not necessarily always the case, but I think generally it's a good
framework you
should launch earlier than you think.
You don't need to have everything perfect, but you need to have most
importantly the
core action.
It's also something in business, just in general, is that users are coming to
your app for the
one main action and the secondary actions aren't going to get them to leave.
They're not going to get them to stay unless you overdo them.
You really just should not have that.
You don't want too many features in your app.
You want one core feature and then you want some supporting features to the
core feature,
but you do not want all these random things baked in.
Keep your app simple.
Don't be the one stop shop for mediocre products.
Instead, be the single store shop for great products.
Everyone asks why we don't put workout plans into Kali I.
The answer is because it's going to convolute the app too much.
There's going to be way too much going on.
Sure.
People who track their calories probably want to work out as well and want
workout plans,
a good percentage of them.
But I would prefer to build a whole separate app under the same umbrella
company that is
all about fitness.
We could even have a link in Kali I to go download that app, but including them
together is too
much going on.
That's the point of the app store.
That's why we have multiple apps on our phones.
I think each app should serve a very specific purpose.
One app for tracking calories, one app for working out.
If you combine both, then it's mediocre on both fronts.
It gets convoluted, confusing.
It's just not what's intended by the fact that you could have multiple apps on
your
phones.
For a reason, also you're missing out on additional revenue because you could
charge two subscriptions.
Two for different apps.
That is actually more nuanced because some people say, "Okay, I want to build a
super
app for everything."
You just charge a higher price, but we don't want to do it.
We want to be simple, intuitive, straight to the point, and pump and print
fucking cash.
We're not the next WeChat.
I'm going to end this section here and see you guys in one of the later ones.